= BigIndex

A Rails plugin that drops into models and provides indexing functionality. Uses an adapter/repository pattern inspired by Datamapper to abstract the actual indexer used in the background, and exposes the model to a simple indexing API.

This should be used in conjunction with BigRecord in order to provide a more complete ORM.

== Supported search servers

* Solr
* Sphinx (planned)

== Getting Started

Modify your Ruby class/model similarly to the following:

  class Model < BigRecord::Base
    include BigIndex::Resource                    # 1. Include the BigIndex::Resource module into your model.

    column :name, :string
    column :description, :text

    index :name,  :string                         # 2. Define each attribute you want to index along with its type.
    index :description                            # Defaults to type :text
  end

BigIndex will then override the default Model.find() method to pass through the indexer first. Model.find() will also accept the option {:bypass_index => true}, which bypasses the indexed #find method and dispatches it to the original Model.find() method, e.g. Model.find(:all, :bypass_index => true). Alternatively, you can use Model.find_without_index(:all) for the same functionality.

== License

Bigindex is released under the MIT license.

== Contributions

Bigindex was derived from the work of Data Mapper and parts of acts_as_solr.

== Links

* Contact Us
  * Website - http://www.bigrecord.org
  * IRC Channel - <tt>#bigrecord</tt> on irc.freenode.net
